# gts-extract -- extract the sequences referenced by the features

## SYNOPSIS

gts-extract [--version] [-h | --help] [<args>] <seqin>

## DESCRIPTION

**gts-extract** takes a single sequence input and return the sequences
associated with each feature. If the sequence input is ommited, standard input
will be read instead. Additionally, if the `locator` argument is given, the
regions associated with the `locator`s will be extracted.

A locator consists of a location specifier and a modifier. A location specifier
may be a `modifier`, a `point location`, a `range location`, or a `selector`.
The syntax for a locator is `[specifier][@modifier]`. See gts-locator(7) for a
more in-depth explanation of a locator. Refer to the EXAMPLES for some examples
to get started.

This command is best utilized in combination with the gts-select(1) command.
Use gts-select(1) to narrow down the sequence regions to be extracted, and then
apply **gts-extract** to retrieve the sequences. See the EXAMPLES section for
more insight.

## OPTIONS

  * `<locator>...`:
    A locator string ([specifier][@modifier]). See gts-locator(7) for more
    details.

  * `<seqin>`:
    Input sequence file (may be omitted if standard input is provided). See
    gts-seqin(7) for a list of currently supported list of sequence formats.

  * `-F <format>`, `--format=<format>`:
    Output file format (defaults to same as input). See gts-seqout(7) for a
    list of currently supported list of sequence formats. The format specified
    with this option will override the file type detection from the output
    filename.

  * `--no-cache`:
    Do not use or create cache. See gts-cache(7) for details.

  * `-o <output>`, `--output=<output>`:
    Output sequence file (specifying `-` will force standard output). The
    output file format will be automatically detected from the filename if none
    is specified with the `-F` or `--format` option.

## EXAMPLES

Retrieve the sequences of all CDS features:

    $ gts select CDS <seqin> | gts extract

Retrieve the sequence 100 bases upstream of all CDS features:

    $ gts select CDS <seqin> | gts extract -m ^-100..^
    $ gts select CDS <seqin> | gts extract --range ^-100..^

Retrieve the sequence 100 bases downstream of all CDS features:

    $ gts select CDS <seqin> | gts extract -m $..$+100
    $ gts select CDS <seqin> | gts extract --range $..$+100

## BUGS

**gts-extract** currently has no known bugs.

## AUTHORS

**gts-extract** is written and maintained by Kotone Itaya.

## SEE ALSO

gts(1), gts-select(1), gts-modifier(7), gts-seqin(7), gts-seqout(7)