## gts-locator(7) -- patterns to refer to locations in a sequence

## SYNOPSIS

[selector|point|range][@modifier]

## DESCRIPTION

**gts-locator**s are patterns for specifying locations within a sequence.
A _locator_ consists of a _location specifier_ and a _modifier_. A
_location specifier_ is one of a `modifier`, a `selector`, a `point location`,
or `range location`. A _selector_ takes the form
`[feature_key][/[qualifier1][=regexp1]][/[qualifier2][=regexp2]]...`. See
gts-selector(7) for more details. A _point location_ is simply a single integer
that directly specifies a single point in the sequence (starting at 1). A
_range location_ is a pair of integers connected with `..` (starting at 1),
which is identical to the notation of a feature range location. However, the
_range location_ of a _locator_ may specify a _modifier_, in which case the `^`
represents the beginning of the sequence and the `$` represents the end of the
sequence. The locations specified by the _location specifier_ can be modified
using a _modifier_. A _modifier_ can take one of five forms: `^[(+|-)n]`,
`$[[(+|-)m]]`, `^[(+|-)n]..$[(+|-)m]`, `^[(+|-)n]..^[(+|-)m]`, or
`$[(+|-)n]..$[(+|-)m]`. See gts-modifier(7) for more details.

## EXAMPLES

Locate the sequence 100 bases upstream of a `CDS`:

    CDS@^-100..^

Extend a location 20 bases upstream and downstream of a gene:

    gene@^-20..$+20

Locate a range between 100 and 200 bases:

    100..200

## SEE ALSO

gts(1), gts-delete(1), gts-infix(1) gts-insert(1), gts-rotate(1), gts-split(1),
gts-modifier(7), gts-selector(7)