# gts-search(1) -- search for a subsequence and annotate its results

## SYNOPSIS

gts-search [--version] [-h | --help] [<args>] <query> <seqin>

## DESCRIPTION

**gts-search** takes a _query_ and a single input sequence, and marks the
regions where the _query_ sequences were found. If a file with a filename
equivalent to the _query_ value exists, it will be opened and read by the
command. If it does not, the command will interpret the _query_ string as a
sequence. The _query_ sequence(s) will be treated as an oligomer. In order to
find perfect matches only, use the `-e` or `--exact` option. By default,
regions are marked as `misc_feature`s without any qualifiers. Use the `-k` or
`--key` option and `-q` or `--qualifier` option so you can easily discover
these features later on with gts-select(1). See the EXAMPLES section for more
insight.

## OPTIONS

  * `<query>`:
    Query sequence file (will be interpreted literally if preceded with @).
    See gts-seqin(7) for a list of currently supported list of sequence
    formats.

  * `<seqin>`:
    Input sequence file (may be omitted if standard input is provided). See
    gts-seqin(7) for a list of currently supported list of sequence formats.

  * `-e`, `--exact`:
    Match the exact pattern even for ambiguous letters.

  * `-F <format>`, `--format=<format>`:
    Output file format (defaults to same as input). See gts-seqout(7) for a
    list of currently supported list of sequence formats. The format specified
    with this option will override the file type detection from the output
    filename.

  * `-k <key>`, `--key=<key>`:
    Key for the reported oligomer region features. The default feature key is
    `misc_feature`.

  * `--no-complement`:
    Do not match the complement strand.

  * `-o <output>`, `--output=<output>`:
    Output sequence file (specifying `-` will force standard output). The
    output file format will be automatically detected from the filename if none
    is specified with the `-F` or `--format` option.

  * `-q <qualifier>`, `--qualifier=<qualifier>`:
    Qualifier key-value pairs (syntax: key=value)). Multiple values may be set
    by repeatedly passing this option to the command.

## EXAMPLES

Search for <query> and retrieve the regions 100 bases around the matches.

    $ gts search -q note=search <query> <seqin> | \
      gts select misc_feature/note=search | \
      gts extract -m '^-100..$+100'

## BUGS

**gts-search** currently has no known bugs.

## AUTHORS

**gts-search** is written and maintained by Kotone Itaya.

## SEE ALSO

gts(1), gts-seqin(7), gts-seqout(7)