# gts-infix(1) -- infix input sequence(s) into the host sequence(s)

## SYNOPSIS

gts-infix [--version] [-h | --help] [<args>] <locator> <host> <guest>

## DESCRIPTION

**gts-infix** takes two sequence inputs: a _host_ sequence input and a _guest_
sequence input, and inserts the sequences contained in the _host_ sequence
input into the sequences contained in the _guest_ sequence input. If the _guest_
sequence input is omitted, standard input will be read instead. For each
sequence in the _guest_ sequence input, a copy of each of the _host_ sequence
input will be created. Each _guest_ sequence will then be inserted into the
location(s) specified by the `locator` in the _host_ sequence.

A locator consists of a location specifier and a modifier. A location specifier
may be a `modifier`, a `point location`, a `range location`, or a `selector`.
The syntax for a locator is `[specifier][@modifier]`. See gts-locator(7) for a
more in-depth explanation of a locator. Refer to the EXAMPLES for some examples
to get started.

Features that were present at the point of insertion will be split to form
a `join`ed location. Such features can be instead expanded if the `-e` or
`--embed` option is provided. Any features present in the _guest_ sequence
will be transferred to the corresponding locations after being inesrted into
the _host_ sequence.

There is also a similar command in gts(1) designated gts-insert(1), While
**gts-infix** inserts the primary sequence input into the _host_ sequences,
gts-insert(1) inserts _guest_ sequences into the primary sequence input. Use
**gts-infix** when you want a insert the sequence that you are working on in a
pipeline into another sequence. Note that all of the _host_ sequences will be
read into memory when using **gts-infix** and all of the _guest_ sequences will
be read into memory when using gts-insert(1). If memory availability may be an
issue, make sure to use the command that will read in the smaller file.

## OPTIONS

  * `<locator>`:
    A locator string ([modifier|selector|point|range][@modifier]).

  * `<host>`:
    Host sequence.

  * `<seqin>`:
    Input sequence file (may be omitted if standard input is provided).

  * `-e`, `--embed`:
    Extend existing feature locations when inserting instead of splitting them.

  * `-F <format>`, `--format=<format>`:
    Output file format (defaults to same as input).

  * `--no-cache`:
    Do not use or create cache.

  * `-o <output>`, `--output=<output>`:
    Output sequence file (specifying `-` will force standard output).

## BUGS

**gts-infix** currently has no known bugs.

## AUTHORS

**gts-infix** is written and maintained by @AUTHOR@.

## SEE ALSO